---
title: Olsalget
date: 2023-12-23 12:00:00 +0200
tags: Application-Programming-Interfaces JavaScript Git Collaborative-Problem-Solving Creative-Problem-Solving Web-Development
---

### olalget.no - the primary function

This site is available at [olsalget.no](https://olsalget.no){:target="\_blank"}, and the source code is available _(under the apache-2.0 license)_ [here](https://github.com/halvornj/olsalget){:target="\_blank"}. It was made in collaboration with [Ruben Vega Bjørkøy](https://github.com/RubenBjorkoy){:target="\_blank"}

A centralized, easy to use, website for viewing sales times of alcoholic beverages under 4,5% in Norway. There were no easy way to find out when one could purchase beer in a given municipality in Norway as any municipality can change this time, based on the law's restrictions, and most google searches only returns the times for biggest cities of Norway. Now, all municipalities can be checked through a simple site.

Developing with static websites has its complications, most notably when requiring a backend solution. The workaround so far has been storing read only JSON files locally and accessing them as needed. As the largest JSON file was "only" 130kb, an average Norwegian end user should have no problem accessing the files, and initializing all API-endpoints within the 2 seconds required to keep engagement. Every API-endpoint has a JSON solution backup in case an API fails like in December, 2023 where an API had an unexpected update to the endpoint structure, causing the site to be unable to retrieve holiday status for the current day, and in turn be unable to retrieve selling times for alcoholic beverages under 4,5% that Christmas season.

### vinmonopolet - expansion

The website also has a similar feature for checking the opening hours of your closest _vinmonopolet_-stores. This was a lot easier to implement, as they offer this information as an api. This allowed for complexity in a different aspect, where a local program is run periodically to update a read-only JSON-record hosted in the same way as the first part of the website. We believed this was a fair way to cut down users load time as they only had to load the Location and opening hours of each store from us, instead of extraneous information from the api every time. Essentially we are caching the opening hours (regular **and** holiday), on the assumption that they don't change suddenly.

> You should note that this information **is** offered by vinmonopolet both on their website and app. We simply thought it an ideal way to expand the website with relevant functionality.
